# Few-Shot-Feature-Space

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

Neural Collapse (https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.08186) is a phenomenon where
after enough traning, a model’s feature space presents a specific
geometrical structure, namely small intra-class variation, and class
means that form a simplex ETF structure. Similarly, in this work I show
demonstrate geometrical properties that arise in feature extractors used
for few-shot learning (e.g. pair matching using Siamese networks), for
classes unseen during training.

Specifically, we see that $d$-dimensional feature vectors of class $C$
distribute as a Gaussian $\mathcal{N}(\mu_C, \Sigma_C)$, where the
differnet class means $\mu_C$ also distribute as a Gaussian. We also see
that almost all of the variability in feature space is represented in a
$k$-dimensional space for $k<d$ (e.g. for LFW $k \approx d/10$)

As natural distributions often tend to a Gaussian distribution, we can
assume that “ideal class features” (prototypes) and the intra-class
variations distribute as Gaussians. Therefore, these findings suggest
that the learning process correctly identifies this set of features (and
other redundant ones) as the best features to learn the large set of
classes seen during training, which would naturally lead to good
generalization to new classes.

In the sidebar you’ll find differnet links to different pages,
demonstrating the differnet geometrical properties:

- `Normal Distribution` shows that features tend to distribute as
  Gaussians
- `Class Mean PCA` shows that a low-dimensional subspace contains all of
  the feature information
- `Inter-Class` shows that classes tend to be orthogonal to one another
- `Intra-Class` shows that classes tend to be tightly concentrated
  (angle-wise). Together with the previous property, this explains the
  effectiveness of such feature extractors as backbones for Siamese
  Netowrks (since inter-class and intra-class angles are separable).
  Here we also see that points of the same class tend to spread around
  the class mean direction (after projecting-out the mean direction,
  point pairs tend to be orthogonal).

## Install

``` sh
git clone https://github.com/Irad-Zehavi/Few-Shot-Feature-Space.git
cd Few-Shot-Feature-Space
pip install .
```
